
Compiling glBSP
===============

by Andrew Apted.  Last updated: 18th December 2001.


glBSP has been written with portability in mind.  It is purely ANSI C,
with one minor exception: I use // comments instead of the more
traditional /* */ comments.

As always, it's a good idea to open the makefile (or batch file, as
the case may be) and check the various settings near the top.

glBSP has been known to compile and work on the following platforms:

   +  Linux 2.1.126, libc5, GCC 2.7.2.1.

   +  Linux 2.2.18, glibc 2.2, GCC 2.95.2.

   +  MSDOS 6.22, with DJGPP 2.02.

   +  Win32, with Borland C++ 5.5 (free command line tools).

   +  Win32, with MinGW 1.0.


Linux
-----

CD into the cmdline directory.  The "makefile" makefile is the correct
one for Linux and other UN*X type OSes.  Simply typing `make' should
create the `glbsp' executable.  Currently there is no automatic
installation, just copy the glbsp executable to where you want it.


MSDOS
-----

CD into the cmdline directory.  The "makefile.dj" makefile is for
compiling under DOS with DJGPP.  Simply typing `make -f makefile.dj'
should create the glbsp.exe executable.


Win32
-----

CD into the cmdline directory.  The "makefile.bcc" makefile is for
compiling under Win32 with Borland C++Builder 5.5.  Assuming BCC is
configured properly (the ".cfg" files it needs have been setup),
typing `make -f makefile.bcc' should create the glbsp.exe executable.

For MinGW compilation, edit the "makeming.bat" file and set the
`MINGW' variable (at the top) to the correct directory.  Then simply
run the "makeming.bat" batch file.


Plugin
------

The plugin version of glBSP is a special version that can be used
within other programs, e.g. a DOOM engine.  Instructions for making
the plugin are similiar to the above, but CD into the `plugin'
directory instead.  The result is a library file: libglbsp.a under
Linux and MSDOS, libglbsp.lib under Win32.

NOTE WELL: since glBSP is under the GNU General Public License (GPL),
it can only be incorporated into other programs that are also under
the GPL.  See the file COPYING.txt for the full details.


Compiling glBSPX
================

glBSPX is the GUI version of glBSP, written in C++ and requires the
FLTK toolkit, version 1.1 (see http://www.fltk.org).  Assuming the
FLTK static library has been built, first CD into the fltk directory
(in glbsp sources).

For Linux: 
    Just running "make" should do the trick.

For Win32 with MinGW: 
    First edit the "makeming.bat" file and set the the `FLTK' and
    `MINGW' variables (at the top) to the correct directories.  Then
    just run the "makeming.bat" batch file.

