you thought you would return to your
own world after d'sparil died, but
his final act banished you to his
own plane. here you entered the
shattered remnants of lands
conquered by d'sparil. you defeated
the last guardians of these lands,
but now you stand before the gates
to d'sparil's stronghold. until this
moment you had no doubts about your
ability to face anything you might
encounter, but beyond this portal
lies the very heart of the evil
which invaded your world. d'sparil
might be dead, but the pit where he
was spawned remains. now you must
enter that pit in the hopes of
finding a way out. and somewhere,
in the darkest corner of d'sparil's
demesne, his personal bodyguards
await your arrival ...
